# Python Learning Resources
Below is a list of the resources I used to learn programming in Python. Maybe they will come in handy for you as well. :)

All entries include a link to a resource, the approximate time I have spent on completing it, price info and a short description.

## Heading 2
  - [Name](link) Time: Price: Description

## Python Basics
Beginner-level tutorials (no previous programming knowledge needed), that I used a first step to learn the basics of Python syntax.
  - [Codecademy's Python tutorial](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/python) Time: ca. 20h Price: Free
  A simple introduction to Python's basics. It involved a lot of hand holding and very little information on programming beyond writing code in Python, but it was perfect for me to get a first grasp of the absolute basic building blocks in Python (in-build data types, control flow etc.)

  - [Learn Python the Hard Way](https://learnpythonthehardway.org/book/) Time: ca. 25h Price: Free
  A great book for complete beginners. The learning method might seem a bit blunt at first (you basically write the very same code that is presented to you in the chapter line-by-line and make it run), but it allowed me to get more and more familiar with writing Python code and  correcting my errors. Zed E. Shaw, the author, has scattered some pretty useful advice on learning here and there and in general I am a bit of a sucker for the tone in which the book is written (straight to the point and yet still encouraging). I particularly liked Zed's [note on practice and persistence](https://learnpythonthehardway.org/book/intro.html) from the book's intro. Although the book is in Python 2.7, at this level I didn't find the differences between Python 2 and 3 relevant.

  - [Google's Python Class](https://developers.google.com/edu/python/) Time: 18h Price: Free
  A tutorial based on a two-day workshop that Prof. Nick Parlante from Stanford gave at Google a couple of years ago. It includes class notes, exercise files and video recordings of the workshop posted on YouTube. Being equipped with a solid knowledge of the basic Python syntax, it still took me much more than two days to cover the tutorial (I would spend maybe 2 hours daily on it), but it was really fun! Finally, the exercises resembled something like a real-world use of Python to manipulate data. I recall exercises where I wrote a program for calculating a wordcount from a text file, with options to show how many times each word appeared in the text and what were the most common words. Another one involved extracting data from a US administration website with statistics on baby names to analyse popularity of certain names across years. As the workshop was held 7 years ago, it also uses Python 2 and in the latter part I run into some issues with deprecated modules being used. But despite that, the exercises were fun, and finally I got to write some simple but useful Python programs.

## Programming Basics
Having grasped the fundamental syntax of Python, I was ready to combine it with broader knowledge of programming and computing principles. This involved getting more familiar with concepts such as functional and object-oriented programming, understanding more about basic data structures and algorithms, principles of clean code, debugging or error and exception handling.
  - [MITx: 6.00.1x Introduction to Computer Science and Programming Using Python](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computer-science-mitx-6-00-1x-10) Time: 80h Price: Free
  This is the single resource I have spent the most time on. A MOOC MIT course hosted on edX, first of two in a series (I only took the first one). As the creators say on the course homepage: "They are challenging and rigorous courses in which the students spend a lot of time and effort learning to bend the computer to their will." And it was that indeed. I have spent may hours and used additional resources to understand the lectures and solve the problem sets. As the material for each week was rolled out, I would usually start by not having the faintest idea about what the professor was talking about and gradually building my way up to finally breaking through and understanding the concepts. And the break-through would always finally come. It gave me immense satisfaction to persist, do the work and see it's effects in the end. And at the end of the course I got a 95% mark (based on problem sets, mid-term and final exam). It was difficult but it was worth it.
  ## Heading 2
  - [Harvard: CS50 Introduction to Computer Science](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-computer-science-harvardx-cs50x) Time: ca. 20h Price: Free
  This one is just so awesome. Don't mind that the code itself is in C. I only watched the lectures (w/out doing the problem sets) and treated them like my new favourite TV series. To some extent it covered the same fundamental programming concepts as the MIT one and I used it to just get a better grasp of the foundations. I love the energy prof. David Malan and the team put into it. And the physical 'stagings' of data structures and algorithms really helped me to understand their underlying implementations. I never thought I would find a lecture on searching and sorting algorithms to be such a pleasure.
